---
layout: post
title:      "**Time for a Change: Switching to Data Science**"
date:       2019-08-03 18:55:15 +0000
permalink:  time_for_a_change_switching_to_data_science
---


They say that those who can't do, teach. I never liked or agreed with that saying. It always implied (at least to me) that teachers are lazy individuals, not hard workers, and are without any type of skill or direction. To me that saying is just another jab at educators and our profession. As a teacher, I can tell you truthfully that we probaly DO more than what we were ever trained to do for our students and their families. So teachers do - they do a lot. Teachers are mentors, friends, parents, leaders, caretackers, builders, and the list goes on and on, yet the song remains the same in our society - teachers don't do enough.

During my fifth year of teaching I came to the conclusion that no matter how hard I pushed or how much of myself I gave to my profession, that everything I did would never be enough for anyone - the administartion, the lovely state of New York, and even for myself. I had hit a low in confidence and reality was sinking in. My mind was telling me that it was time for a change, and a new direction in life. I was unhappy and I wanted more for myself and my family.

So why data science? Why give up a city job that pays well and offers wonderful benefits? Why put yourself through all this stress of a career change? These might be questions you are asking yourself as you read this blog post (they are questions I still ask myself, if I'm being honest). Well, this journey into the world of coding began for me about five years ago during my first year of teaching. At the end of my first year I decided that if my students were going to be successful in the 21st century world then they needed to build a 21st century skill that would make them successful in today's world - coding. Over the next four and a half years I began working on building a computer science in my school. It was hard, time consuming, and stressful, but in the end I was able to bring computer science and AP computer science classes to my school. And, by the end of it, I had also discovered a love for coding.

The problem for me has never been teaching. I love to teach. I have been teaching since I was 18 years old and a full time teacher for over five years in NYC. I have had so much success and provided my students and their families with so many opportunities. But, the politics, the constant pointing of the finger, the directionless administration and watching as the passion and fire slowly die and become nothing more than bitterness in the souls of my older colleagues was a wake up call for me. I felt that if I stayed, I would also become bitter and eventually seen as obsolete. I also felt I wasn't making the difference I felt I could make on the world. I felt that there was more I could do.

Data science seemed like that shining light in a void of uncertainty. I could quench my passion for coding, my love of learning, and my need to help others in an environment of limitless possibilities. To me, data science is an opportunity to apply my creativity and passions in a way that can shape and move the world in a more positive direction. As a science teacher, information and data is everything to me, and being able to use that knowledge in a way that could benefit humanity is even more important to me. As a data scientist I want to be able to help others, I want to use information to create change in the world. I am pursuing a career in data science because I wish to take my life into my own hands and lead my life according to my own beat, and not to the beat of others. The journey is going to be long, but I have a vision and I feel that through data science I can make my vision a reality.
